Amazon Widget is a MediaWiki tag extension that allows the insertion
of an Amazon Associates advertising "widget" into a wiki page.  Your
Amazon Associate ID is specified through a global variable you must
initialize in your "LocalSettings.php", and the long hexidecimal
string that uniquely identifies each Amazon ad unit is supplied to the
tag through an attribute.  Amazon Widget supplies the rest of the
boiler-plate for the Amazon ad, and wraps it in a <div> tag in the
generated HTML, which is (by default) floated to the right edge of the
wiki page.

This extension is not suitable for creating Amazon "Omakase" widgets
(see http://github.com/gleneivey/AmazonOmakaseWidget for that),
and has so far been tested only with "My Favorites"-type widgets.

Amazon Widget is licensed under the GNU AGPLv3.


INSTALLATION

Place the Amazon Widget files in a directory named "AmazonWidget"
under the "extensions" directory in your MediaWiki installation, and
add the following to your LocalSettings.php:

    $wg_AMZWID_associateId = "<your associate tracking-id>";
    require_once( "$IP/extensions/AmazonWidget/AmazonWidget.php" );

The global variable for your associate ID (shown above) is required.
There are additional optional configuration globals supported, see
below.  The associate ID must be supplied on LocalSettings.php for
security reasons, preventing anyone with "just" page-editing
privileges from modifying the beneficiary of advertising on the wiki.


USAGE

An ad block is included in a wiki page by placing the
"<amazonwidget>" tag in your wikitext.  For example:

    <amazonwidget adcode="01234567-89ab-cdef-0123-456789abcdef" />

The "adcode" attribute allows you to supply the ID number for the
specific ad to be requested from Amazon.  You can find this in the
URLs that Amazon includes when you view the HTML code that would be
inserted in a normal web page to cause the ad to display.  The
"adcode" value is checked to make sure it is valid (composed only of
hexidecimal digits and hyphens), and if it is not, Amazon Widget
produces an HTML comment with an error message (search for
"AmazonWidget" in the returned page source).

Amazon Widget places the HTML for the ad itself inside of a <div>
tag.  It places the following attributes in this tag:

        class="AmazonWidget"
  This attribute sets the class of all div's produced by Amazon Widget
  the same so that you can apply CSS styling to all of them as a set.

        id="01234567-89ab-cdef-0123-456789abcdef"
  In addition to being included in the HTML for the ad itself, Amazon
  Widget places the value from the "adcode" attribute in the wikitext
  of the page in the ad div's "id".  This could be used to apply CSS
  styling to an individual ad.

        style="float: right"
  By default, Amazon Widget creates div's that are "floated" right, so
  that they're shown flush against the right edge of the content area
  of the page, and the rest of the page's content flows around them.
  To control how this attribute is created in the output HTML, include
  a 'float="<value>"' attribute in the <amazonwidget> tag in your wiki
  page's source, like:

    <amazonwidget adcode="01234567-89ab-cdef-0123-456789abcdef" float="left" />

  This example will generate output HTML with 'style="float: left"',
  causing the ad to be positioned between the "portal" column
  (normally at the far left edge of a wiki page) and the rest of the
  page's text/etc.

  The acceptable values for the "float" attribute are "left", "right",
  and "none".  An unacceptable value will produce the default of
  "right".


CONFIGURATION

In addition to the mandatory $wg_AMZWID_associateId, Amazon Widget
supports two additional variables that can be set in
LocalSettings.php.  These are intended to accomodate variations in the
format of the amazon.com URL.  If the URLs that Amazon provides for
your ads match the default URL patterns in Amazon Widget, you will
have no need for these parameters.

        $wg_AMZWID_urlTemplate

  Use this variable to control the composition of the URL that will be
  placed in the generated HTML to fetch the ad JavaScript from Amazon.
  The default value is:

    http://ws.amazon.com/widgets/q?ServiceVersion=20070822&MarketPlace=US&ID=V20070822/US/$1/8001/$2

  Where "$1" is replaced by your Amazon Associates ID (the value of
  the required "$wg_AMZWID_associateId" variable), and "$2" is
  replaced by the ad code ("adcode" attribute) from each
  <amazonwidget> tag.  No other parsing or validation is performed on
  the value you provide--you should supply a value which will, with
  the substitution of "$1" and "$2", produce a URL string matching the
  sample Amazon provides for your ads.

        $wg_AMZWID_noScriptTemplate

  The HTML code Amazon provides for ad widgets includes the ad URL
  twice:  once as the "src" of a <script> tag, and once as the "href"
  of an <a>.  The URL template described above completely controls the
  URL used for the script-tag src.  The value of this variable, which
  defaults to:

    &Operation=NoScript

  (which matches Amazon's current value) is *appended* to the URL used
  for src in order to produce the one used as the "href" of the
  <noscript> tag.

        &wg_AMZWID_margin

  If this global variable is defined and the div containing an Amazon
  Widget is floated, then Amazon Widget will add a margin
  specification to the div's "style=" attribute.  For example, with

    $wg_AMZWID_margin = "2em";

  in "LocalSettings.php", the Amazon Widget tag

    <amazonwidget adcode="..." float="left" />

  will produce a div tag in the generated HTML that looks like

    <div id="..." class="AmazonWidget"
         style="float: left; margin-right: 2em">

  Note that the margin is always added to the *opposite* side from the
  float, so that the specified blank area is left between the text of
  the page and the edge of the ad.  The value of $wg_AMZWID_margin is
  copied directly into the output HTML and not error checked in any
  way.


TIPS

In using this extension, I ran into cases where the ads I wanted to
include in my wiki pages ran longer (vertically) than the text I had
it associated with, which resulted in the ad blocks "stacking" against
each other.  I solved this problem by adding the following

    h2 {
      clear: both;
    }

to my

    MediaWiki:Common.css

This forces all headers to be pushed below any float'ed content (such
as the div's that Amazon Widget produces), and may give you a more
satisfactory layout.  (Yes, using the selector ".mw-headline" would be
more specific, but "clear" must be applied to a block element and not
a <span>, alas.)


STATUS

The current version (v0.1) of Amazon Widget is based on HTML code
provided by Amazon's Associate web pages on 15 January, 2010.  I
assume they don't change this often, but....

The implementation of Amazon Widget is currently quite immature.  It
has been tested with "My Favorites"-type Amazon Widgets only, with
MediaWiki v1.15.1 only, and on Ubuntu Debian/GNU/Linux only.  Also,
I've done very little PHP coding, let alone MediaWiki, so any changes
to make the PHP code more idiomatic or the extension more in line with
MediaWiki norms are more than welcome.

